# Service Level Agreement fo International CRS

## Service Level Agreement for International CRS

* Content Request Service Documentation is [here](https://confluence.ihtsdotools.org/display/SCTCR/SNOMED+CT+Content+Request+Service)
* Early visibility for 2025 proposed content changes is [here](https://confluence.ihtsdotools.org/display/RMT/2025+Early+Visibility+Release+Notifications)
* Customer Guidance for requesting content changes via CRS is [here](https://www.snomed.org/snomed-ct/Use-SNOMED-CT/change-or-add)
* Submission dates for CRS are [here](https://www.snomed.org/snomed-ct/Use-SNOMED-CT/change-or-add)

<table><thead><tr><th>Previous 2022 Service Level</th><th width="100.87890625">Target</th><th>Current Service Level</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td>Submitters will receive an acknowledgement of receipt of their submission within 7 working days.</td><td>95%</td><td><p>NO CHANGE.</p><p>Submitters will receive an acknowledgement of receipt of their submission within 7 working days.</p></td></tr><tr><td><p>A notice will be published on the website biannually to indicate the submission dates for the CRS.</p><p></p><p><a href="https://www.snomed.org/snomed-ct/Use-SNOMED-CT/change-or-add">https://www.snomed.org/snomed-ct/Use-SNOMED-CT/change-or-add</a></p><p></p><p>Date of publication for the requested change will be communicated to the submitter via the CRS request at the time it is moved to a status of complete.</p></td><td>100%</td><td><p>UPDATED.</p><p></p><p><strong>CRS SLA Reporting Period for Q1 &#x26; Q2</strong></p><p>Requests submitted between 14th October and 15th April inclusive will be reviewed for inclusion in a monthly release in or before the following July international release.</p><p></p><p><strong>CRS SLA Reporting Period for Q3 &#x26; Q4</strong></p><p>Requests submitted between 16th April and 13th October inclusive will be reviewed for inclusion in a monthly release in or before the following January international release.</p></td></tr><tr><td><p><strong>Request Commitment</strong></p><p>A minimum total of 1500 separate requests of the total submitted on or before the published request closure date for submissions shall be considered for inclusion or have an identified content tracker assigned, unless they are marked for clarification, appeal or are rejected or withdrawn. </p><p></p><p>Requests that are accepted will be considered for inclusion providing that:</p><ol><li>The required information as specified in the document ‘Customer Guidance for Requesting Changes to SNOMED CT’ has been supplied with the request.</li><li>The request aligns with current editorial guidelines.  </li><li>The submitter has not exceeded the maximum of 150 changes of the same type.</li></ol><p>Complex requests that impact a large area of content or require additional input from resources other than the manager of the request may exceed this time period. </p><p></p><p><strong>Request Balance</strong></p><p>SNOMED International reserves the right to assess the number of submissions made per country per release to create balance of submissions and fairness in equal resolution of requests.</p><p></p><p>Any set of requests from the same member country/submitter may not exceed 150 of the same type  during a 6 month period. Examples of the same type of requests would be: 150+ requests for new concepts all in the same hierarchy (i.e. procedure, body structure, substance etc), 150+ requests for changes to existing content such as new descriptions, modeling changes such as to stated relationships or attributes, concept or description inactivation, changes to descriptions or questions about existing content.</p><p></p><p>The 150 total may be submitted as a large submission or smaller submissions, however once the total of 150 has been reached no further requests of the same type will be accepted during that 6 month period. Further requests above the 150 total will be marked as rejected.</p><p></p><p>Slight overages of the 150 will be considered on a case by case basis for submission and must be approved prior to submission by contacting Maria Braithwaite (mbr@<a href="http://snomed.org/">snomed.org</a>). Requests must follow the customer guidance documentation and must:</p><ul><li>Meet an International use case. </li><li>Meet <a href="https://confluence.ihtsdotools.org/display/DOCEG">SNOMED International Editorial Guidelines</a> </li></ul><p>Any set of requests exceeding 150 of the same type must be referred to the Customer and Stakeholder Relationship Management lead before being submitted to the CRS system. </p><p></p><p><strong>Bulk Submissions</strong></p><p>Must be submitted to the <a href="https://www.snomed.org/help-center/help-center">Customer &#x26; Stakeholder Relationship Representative</a>, they will coordinate the best path for inclusion, either a bulk submission or a Member Priority project, including feedback timeline within available resources and priorities.</p></td><td>90%</td><td><p>UPDATED.</p><p><strong>Request Commitment</strong></p><p>All requests submitted on or before the published request closure date for the reporting period shall be considered for inclusion or have an identified content tracker assigned, unless they are marked for clarification, appeal or are rejected or withdrawn. </p><p></p><p>Requests will be considered for inclusion providing that the following criteria are met:</p><ol><li>The required information as specified in the document ‘Customer Guidance for Requesting Changes to SNOMED CT’ has been supplied with the request.</li><li>The request aligns with current editorial guidelines.  </li><li>The submitter has not exceeded the maximum of 150 changes of the same type.</li></ol><p>Complex requests that impact a large area of content or require additional input from resources other than the manager of the request may exceed this time period. </p><p></p><p><strong>Request Balance</strong></p><p>SNOMED International reserves the right to assess the number of submissions made per country per release to create balance of submissions and fairness in equal resolution of requests.</p><p></p><p>Any set of requests from the same member country/submitter may not exceed 150 of the same type during the same SLA reporting period. Examples of the same type of requests would be: 150+ requests for new concepts all in the same hierarchy (i.e. procedure, body structure, substance etc), 150+ requests for changes to existing content such as new descriptions, modeling changes such as to stated relationships or attributes, concept or description inactivation, changes to descriptions or questions about existing content.</p><p></p><p>The 150 total may be submitted as a large submission or smaller submissions, however once the total of 150 has been reached no further requests of the same type will be accepted during that SLA reporting period. Further requests above the 150 total will be marked as rejected.</p><p></p><p>Any set of requests exceeding 150 of the same type must be referred to the Customer and Stakeholder Relationship Management lead before being submitted to the CRS system to discuss options for inclusion into the international release.</p><p></p><p><strong>Bulk Submissions</strong></p><p>Must be submitted to the Customer &#x26; Stakeholder Relationship Executive, they will coordinate the best path for inclusion, either a bulk submission or a Member Priority project, including feedback timeline within available resources and priorities.</p><p></p><p>Requirements for new content/content changes that exceed 150 changes of the same type will not usually be accepted via the CRS without prior discussion.</p></td></tr><tr><td>All requests marked for clarification will remain open for a period of 60 days, after which the request will be closed without right to appeal.</td><td>95%</td><td><p>NO CHANGE.</p><p>All requests marked for clarification will remain open for a period of 60 days, after which the request will be closed without right to appeal.</p></td></tr></tbody></table>

\






<a href="https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLScTmbZIf0UEQwYDkY27EEWBkaiYkHSbR0_9DmFrMLXoQLyL7Q/viewform?usp=pp_url&entry.1767247133=Content+Request+Guide&entry.670899847=Service%20Level%20Agreement%20fo%20International%20CRS" class="button primary">Provide Feedback</a>
